Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to
Bruce Derenko Bootstrap to Wordprocess.
Let's see if I can say
that a little faster.
Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to
Bruce Derenko Bootstrap to Wordprocess.
This lecture is called Code the Instructor
Section with Advanced Custom Fields.
Ha, yes, did it.
[MUSIC]
Here we are in the instructor section,
almost on the home page, and
this one's actually really easy.
The last couple were doozies, so this one
is going to be pretty straight forward.
Let's jump right in.
Go back to your dashboard and
we're gonna go straight to Custom fields.
There's no custom post types in this one.
We just want to be able to have
a section in our Home Edit page.
So add a new field group.
We're going to call this bad boy,
the Instructor Section.
Add a field, and that field label is
going to be instructor section title.
Whoops.
There we go.
And that's just going to be text,
acquired [FOREIGN].
No format, and close that field up.
Good to go.
Add another field.
This one will be instructor name,
and text, whoops not text area.
Required and No formatting.
Close that field.
We're gonna have another section
called the Bio excerpt, and
that's gonna be text as well.
Required Yes and No formatting.
Close that.
And then we have the full bio,
we'll call that Full Bio.
And this will be WYSIWYG Editor.
Nope, changed my mind, Text Area.
Required, yes.
And formatting, break tags, good enough.
Close field.
I actually want to put a couple
hints in here, field instructions.
Enter a brief intro to
the instructor's bio.
There we go.
And then for a full bio, I wanna say,
enter the remainder of
the instructor's bio.
There we go.
So we got full bio, and
we got those social icons.
We have Twitter, Facebook, Google Plus.
We need to be able to
access the username for
that specific instructor, for me.
So we need to add another field and
we're gonna say Twitter user name [SOUND],
and that's going to be
just basic text enter
the instructor's Twitter user name.
And then, I'm going to
actually put placeholder text.
This isn't required.
Placeholder text to show you
what I want you to type.
So, I want to say at Brad Hussey.
Actually, I'm just going to say Brad
Hussey because I'm going to prepend and
at symbol.
Because I don't want you to write the at
sign because we're going to grab what they
wrote then stick it in a URL so
the at sign will break the URL, whereas if
you put a prepend just before the input,
it'll look like it's already there and
they'll just put their username.
No formatting.
And close that field.
Let's duplicate that and
say, Facebook Username.
And that's gonna be same deal.
Enter the instructor's Facebook username.
Same deal, but it won't be at.
Close that field.
And we're gonna duplicate.
This one will be Google Plus Username,
google_plus_username.
Enter the instructor's G plus username,
and then I'm gonna prepend a plus.
Or I think the plus sign is in the URL,
so we're gonna make
the placeholder text look like so.
So, they put the plus sign.
Great.
And close that field.
Then, we have those three
little spots down here.
Big spots.
The numbers.
How many students are using courses.
So, we just need to be
able to add those numbers.
So, I'm gonna say, number of students.
I'm just gonna change this to
num_students just so it's shorter.
Let's change this to number.
And not required, well, yeah,
let's make that required.
And we'll leave that as is, close.
Duplicate, this would
be Number of Reviews.
This will be num_reviews.
Number required, good enough.
And then, number of Courses.
And this will be num_courses.
And all the rest should be good.
Close that field.
All right.
So, now,
we need to make sure that this
displays on the homepage.
Good to go.
And the position is normal,
we want it to be standard.
WordPress metabox.
And that's fine.
Now, let's see if there's something
that we can organize better here.
So, maybe we can organize
the social icons and the numbers.
So let's add another field and
make it the tab.
And then title that tab, Social Icons.
And then we're gonna drag that up here.
Whoops.
Before the social icons.
And then I'm gonna add one more tab.
And that's gonna be titled, The Numbers.
I'm gonna drag that above the numbers,
and there we go.
I'm gonna publish that.
And then, now, if I go to my homepage,
I should have access to
the Instructor Section.
Perfect.
Great.
I'm just gonna drag that below the project
features section.
Open that back up again.
And now let's just add some info.
Okay.
So, we have Your Instructor.
I'm gonna grab this stuff here.
Well this first, Your Instructor.
Instructor Section Title, Your Instructor.
And then, Brad Hussey is the name.
Bio excerpt was this stuff right here.
Gonna paste that in there.
And then the rest of
the bio was right here.
Paste that in,
social icons and the numbers.
Okay.
So, my Twitter username is bradhussey,
Facebook username is bradhussey and
my Google Plus username is bradhussey
with the plus sign beforehand.
The numbers,
number of students at this point,
I have how many students at this point?
57,121.
I'm gonna go ahead and
paste that in there.
57,121 plus,
just because by the time I publish this,
I might have a couple more
students number of reviews.
I have 853 reviews.
And the number of courses, eight courses.
There we go.
And now I'm going to go and update that.
And it wouldn't let me because I
think I have a plus sign in there, so
I'm just going to take that plus
sign away and update again.
Please enter a number, okay.
So, it's not happy that
I have a comma in there,
so this is probably best
to not have it be a number.
So I'm just gonna, for now,
just put a straight up number in there and
I'm gonna go back to my custom fields and
change the number of students
to just a plain text field.
Because I wanna be able to put
the comma and the plus symbol or sign.
So back to the instructor section here.
Change the number of students not
to a number but straight up text.
And formatting, no formatting.
Good.
Update.
Head back to your home edit page.
And in there, you should now
be able to add the comma and
the plus sign where they should be.
Perfect.
Now, I can go ahead and update.
And now in my code editor,
we need to add some variables.
Last section of variables here,
my friends.
We're gonna have
the instructor_section_title.
And that's gonna be the whole
get_field function,
as we are used to now at this point.
This will be instructor_section_title,
and the next one is gonna
be the instructor_name.
Change this to instructor_name.
And then,
we got ourselves the bio excerpt.
Good to go.
This is gonna be the same field,
bio.excerpt, and then we got the full bio.
Put that full bio in there.
Then we got ourselves
the Twitter user name.
And that will be the same deal in here.
User name.
Great.
And then the next one will be
the Facebook username, and
then Google plus username [SOUND].
And then the last few things
are the number of students num_students
then we have the number of reviews,
num_reviews.
And then last,
we have the number of courses.
And there are our variables.
Scroll down to the instructor section.
Here we are.
And then,
let's start changing some stuff up.
So the H2 right here,
we're gonna have php echo
instructor_section_title, and
then, in the small tag,
we've got php echo instructor_name.
Great.
And then here,
we're going to add our social lengths.
So I could have made them not required.
I don't remember if I made
them required or not.
So let me just double check.
Not required.
Okay.
That's important for
us to know because we need to check
to see if they've been set or not.
So, the way that we do that
is very straightforward.
For the Twitter one, looks like so, PHP.
If not empty, Twitter username,
and then we're going to close
up that PHP tag right here.
And if.
So there is Twitter, but we need to
actually make the user name correct.
So right here instead of the static one,
we're gonna say,
PHP echo twitter username.
There we go.
And then,
we're gonna do the seam sort
of deal here for Facebook.
And this will be facebook_username,
instead of twitter_username And
then, instead of bradhussey,
this will be PHP echo facebook_username.
Good.
Then, the last one right
here is Google plus.
This will be Google plus user name.
Close up that PHP tag, then we have our
Google plus username right here,
PHP Echo google_plus_username.
There it is.
Scroll down.
We have our lead text here, which is gonna
be our bio excerpt, so that's easy enough.
Php echo bio_excerpt.
Good to go.
And all of this, take out all
the paragraph tags all together.
That's just gonna be straight up.
And then, we have the level four heading.
The Numbers, they Don't Lie.
And then you've got our numbers.
So, we're gonna take this number here.
then I'm gonna do the same deal for
the other ones.
So, I got PHP echo num_reviews.
And if I wanted to add a plus sign to
this one, although it is just a number,
I could put it right here at the end.
Could have done the same deal here, but
I like the idea of having
the comma in that number.
We're in the text field, number of
reviews and then the number of courses.
Change this to num courses.
Okay.
Save that and
let's see if it works on the front end.
If so, then we're good for this lecture.
Awesome.
Looks like it works.
And we got the title, instructor name,
we got the correct links to the profiles.
Bio excerpt, full bio.
We got the numbers, 57,121 plus students,
853 plus reviews, and 8 courses.
Awesome.
That's good.
And then, now, we have one more
section coming up for this up,
one more lecture for this whole module or
section and we're gonna be doing the,
What People Are Saying About Brad
section right here, the testimonials.
And I'll see you in the next lecture for
that.
[MUSIC]